README.md, before:

# Exoscale Block Storage CSI Driver

Exoscale Block Storage Container Storage Interface Driver.

## Prerequisite

* An API key associated to an IAM role with at least those permissions:
``` json
{
  "default-service-strategy": "deny",
  "services": {
    "compute": {
      "type": "rules",
      "rules": [
        {
          "expression": "operation in ['list-zones', 'get-block-storage-volume', 'list-block-storage-volumes', 'create-block-storage-volume', 'delete-block-storage-volume', 'attach-block-storage-volume-to-instance', 'detach-block-storage-volume', 'update-block-storage-volume-labels', 'resize-block-storage-volume', 'get-block-storage-snapshot', 'list-block-storage-snapshots', 'create-block-storage-snapshot', 'delete-block-storage-snapshot']",
          "action": "allow"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

* Create a kubernetes secret for the API key with [exoscale-secret.sh](./deployment/exoscale-secret.sh).
    ```Bash
    export EXOSCALE_API_KEY=EXOxxxxx
    export EXOSCALE_API_SECRET=xxxxx
    deployment/exoscale-secret.sh
    ```

## Deployment

```
kubectl apply -k 'github.com/exoscale/exoscale-csi-driver/deployment/latest?ref=main'
```

## Using it

You should see your `exoscale-csi-controller` and `exoscale-csi-node` pods running in the `kube-system` namespace.
```Bash
kubectl -n kube-system get pods
...
exoscale-csi-controller-5df549794-7ptgw             7/7     Running   0          5d1h
exoscale-csi-node-nkbzw                             3/3     Running   0          5d1h
exoscale-csi-node-v8skv                             3/3     Running   0          5d1h
...
```

Since one `exoscale-csi-node` is deployed per node, you should see one pod per node.

### Example

You can deploy a test App example to try it out.
```Bash
# You should see an Exoscale Block Storage Volume created in your Organization.
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/pvc.yaml
# You should see your example App pod running and the Volume attached to one of your nodes.
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/deployment.yaml
```

## Building from source

You can build a binary
```Bash
make build
```

Or you can build a container image
```Bash
make docker
```

## Versioning and compatibility policy

The Exoscale CSI adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

Minor versions are aligned with the minor version number of the latest Kubernetes release.
The aligned version `0.y` is compatible with Kubernetes version `1.y` and unless specified otherwise in the compatibility matrix below, CSI `0.y` is also compatible with the two most recent Kubernetes minor versions before `1.y`. Even older versions may work but without guarantee.
For example, CSI `0.99` would be compatible with Kubernetes versions `1.99`, `1.98` and `1.97`.

### Compatibility Matrix

| CSI version | supported Kubernetes versions |
|-------------|-------------------------------|
| 0.31        | 1.31, 1.30                    |
| 0.29        | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27              |

Commit message:

doc: warn against manually modifying volumes through Exoscale API (#44)

README.md, after:

# Exoscale Block Storage CSI Driver

Exoscale Block Storage Container Storage Interface Driver.

## Prerequisite

* An API key associated to an IAM role with at least those permissions:
``` json
{
  "default-service-strategy": "deny",
  "services": {
    "compute": {
      "type": "rules",
      "rules": [
        {
          "expression": "operation in ['list-zones', 'get-block-storage-volume', 'list-block-storage-volumes', 'create-block-storage-volume', 'delete-block-storage-volume', 'attach-block-storage-volume-to-instance', 'detach-block-storage-volume', 'update-block-storage-volume-labels', 'resize-block-storage-volume', 'get-block-storage-snapshot', 'list-block-storage-snapshots', 'create-block-storage-snapshot', 'delete-block-storage-snapshot']",
          "action": "allow"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

* Create a kubernetes secret for the API key with [exoscale-secret.sh](./deployment/exoscale-secret.sh).
    ```Bash
    export EXOSCALE_API_KEY=EXOxxxxx
    export EXOSCALE_API_SECRET=xxxxx
    deployment/exoscale-secret.sh
    ```

## Deployment

```
kubectl apply -k 'github.com/exoscale/exoscale-csi-driver/deployment/latest?ref=main'
```

## Using it

You should see your `exoscale-csi-controller` and `exoscale-csi-node` pods running in the `kube-system` namespace.
```Bash
kubectl -n kube-system get pods
...
exoscale-csi-controller-5df549794-7ptgw             7/7     Running   0          5d1h
exoscale-csi-node-nkbzw                             3/3     Running   0          5d1h
exoscale-csi-node-v8skv                             3/3     Running   0          5d1h
...
```

Since one `exoscale-csi-node` is deployed per node, you should see one pod per node.

### Example

You can deploy a test App example to try it out.
```Bash
# You should see an Exoscale Block Storage Volume created in your Organization.
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/namespace.yaml
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/pvc.yaml
# You should see your example App pod running and the Volume attached to one of your nodes.
kubectl apply -f doc/examples/deployment.yaml
```

> Warning: It is discouraged to manually modify volumes managed by the CSI through the Exoscale API(Portal, CLI or otherwise). We recommend applying changes through kubernetes whenever possible.

## Building from source

You can build a binary
```Bash
make build
```

Or you can build a container image
```Bash
make docker
```

## Versioning and compatibility policy

The Exoscale CSI adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/).

Minor versions are aligned with the minor version number of the latest Kubernetes release.
The aligned version `0.y` is compatible with Kubernetes version `1.y` and unless specified otherwise in the compatibility matrix below, CSI `0.y` is also compatible with the two most recent Kubernetes minor versions before `1.y`. Even older versions may work but without guarantee.
For example, CSI `0.99` would be compatible with Kubernetes versions `1.99`, `1.98` and `1.97`.

### Compatibility Matrix

| CSI version | supported Kubernetes versions |
|-------------|-------------------------------|
| 0.31        | 1.31, 1.30                    |
| 0.29        | 1.29, 1.28, 1.27              |
